it wasn't until I was later in
in in high school that i had my
first biology tutor who sort of
gave me the confidence that I
could be a scientist I wasn't
with her because you're acting
correct right I was wrong i was
on this show blossom from
Northern Water I was lost on and
show the lying about and were
blah
yeah they're clear correct when
friends I met this this woman
who is my biology tutor that was
sort of my my real kind of
coming out party of believing
that I could be a scientist I
didn't even have the skillset
because i had i had been paying
attention all the previous years
in math and science but really
just doing what i needed to get
by
I didn't really understand the
beauty of science and math and
that whole world until I was
later into high school and
obviously pursuing it in college
was you know it was it was a
party so this saddens me you
know why not your story attract
I've heard that before I know
that if the that single person
right made a life difference to
you right
how many people are missing that
single person who cannot just I
mean I can i am sure we could
all run the stats on it many
girls right
it is the first answer the first
name and that's because I mean
that's because of historical
difference in the representation
of women in these fields and and
a probably a cultural bias on
the part of of teachers and
instructors and an even
administration how much
intellectual capital untapped in
this world do I number detector
i want i want numbers there's
any numbers don't just say I
don't have them
I think it's a what this is
Startalk they'll leave you
numberless when we can put
numbers in this situation you
have the number i have the power
I shouldn't have doubted you for
a second no I have the power to
give you the numbers have the
power to get someone to give you
them that's how I work for
Howard to listen to those number
so Mona can I get some numbers
please
everyone's motor lobby she's a
data journalist didn't even know
that thing existed money you got
some numbers for us to bring
some of us into focus and do I
wanted to try on some items
question as directly as possible
so i wanted to find out how many
female scientists America is
missing and the number i came to
its 80,000 missing meaning they
might have been scientist but
some force prevented that from
happening
exactly exactly good and i just
took biologists chemists and a
category called other natural
scientists and i worked at how
many women you would need to
just get to a 50-50 gender split
and that's when I got 80,000 so
when you say 80,000 it's just
80,000 those professions exactly
what you're leaving out
engineering and physics and
mathematics mathematics and all
the rest of this
yeah okay but presumably i equal
access equal opportunity doesn't
require equal outcome so that
that missing number presumes
that if everything were even
then everything would be even
right but we know that we don't
have equal access right now I am
touched on in the clip and its
really really relevant so I also
looked at some of the cultural
barriers that stopped him from
going into the sciences now we
know that statistically women
are less likely to be hired by
science faculty they're less
likely to be asked to perform
mathematical tasks and they're
less likely to have their
academic papers deemed of high
quality and I know that last bit
because of research by a female
scientists called mr pearson now
what image was she looked at 930
8301 academic scientific papers
and she found that the average
male scientists publishes 45%
more papers than the average
female scientist so you're
saying we were messed up that's
what you're saying that's how to
be messed up
numerical in numbers numbers are
showing how messed up you are
saying